Debug Mode is the Visual Studio feature you will use to compile and run your program.
The Error List within Visual Studio will show both syntax and compiler errors.
A using block in C# used for to dispose unmanaged resources.
C# a strongly typed language, which means each type of data is predefined as part of the programming language.
In C#, one class can NOT inherit from multiple base classes.
== (double equals) is the correct operator to compare two variables.
Real is NOT a valid data type.
The first index number in an array starts with 0 and the highest index number of an array of size n will be n - 1.
A class object and a member of that class are connected by the dot operator.
Garbage collection is the process of de-allocating memory automatically.
A class may contain any number of variables and methods.
An If-Else statement can NOT be used for handling thrown Exceptions.
** is NOT an Arithmetic operator in C#.NET.
Static functions can access only static data, static functions cannot call instance functions, instance functions can call static functions and access static data.
The Inheritance mechanism uses the existing functionality of base class, overrrides the existing functionality of base class, implements new functionality in the derived class.
A long is an 8-byte Integer.
You can access a private field that is a member of a class with a public property to get and set the private field.
The purpose of the protected access modifier is to hide access to the field from outside the class except a derived class.
*=, +=, =, /= are assignment operators.
In a Switch statement, if the value of the expression is not represented by a case, the default case will execute if provided in the switch statement.
\ (backslash) is used to start an escape sequence in a string.
Array is NOT a value type.
foreach (int x in arr) { Console.WriteLine(x); } prints the elements of an integer array called arr.
Given a class Robot, Robot droid = new Robot() is the correct way to instantiate an object.
Within a class definition, private is the default access modifier for a class member without one.
No value is returned by the following method signature, protected void MyMethod();
A default constructor has 0 parameters.
public Robot(), public Robot(int speed), public Robot(int speed, string type) are all correct signatures for a constructor for a Robot class.
Given an ArrayList arList, arList.Count is how you get the number of elements in arList.
A value can be repeated in a Dictionary collection any number of times.
List<int> numbers = new List<int>() is the correct way to declare and instantiate a List collection.
Of the collections, Array is NOT dynamic, while List, Dictionary, and ArrayList are.
Provided a List with 10 names, names[4] is the correct way to get the name at 5th position in the List.
Exception is the base exception class that can catch all types of exceptions.
using is the keyword used to add a base class library or namespace to a project to become accessible.
Abstract is the keyword used to make a class definition nonconcrete.
Sealed is the keyword used to prevent a class from being inherited.
Of the following components, namespace can NOT be inside a class definition, but method, field, and property can be.
++ is the operator used to increment a number by 1.
The modulus '%' returns the remainder of two int values when divided.
You can NOT use access modifiers in an interface.
Downcasting is NOT implicit.
Assemblies are packages containing MSIL instructions and metadata to allow various components and tools to function together within the CLR at runtime.
Breakpoint is what you use as a flag or marker indicating a place to pause current execution of a program.
Every class contains a default constructor.
Base is the keyword used to call a method from the Parent class.
Interfaces are what is used in order to mimic multiple inheritance.
You can have more than one constructor, but you can't have none.
Properties are used to store private backing fields.