DevOps is Development Culture, Improves team communication, Brings together the Development and Operations team, and Guarantees proper continuous integration, delivery and deployment.
Continuous Integration is keeping up with the latest build of the application.
Git is a version control tool.
In Git, after making changes in a branch, you can commit before you push.
You can create a new branch in Git with the command, git checkout -b <newBranch>.
A protected branch in Git is a branch that cannot be accidentally deleted, a branch that you cannot push into unless you are an admin or owner, a branch in which changes can only go in with a pull request approved by an admin.
Building is the process of compiling, testing and packaging source code.
SonarQube is an open source platform that performs static analysis of code to determine code quality.
Development Operations is the idea that project development and project operations should be combined, automated, and monitored, allowing for shorter development periods, increased deployments, and higher project stability..
Continuous Deployment is when a merge to the remote repository results in your code being deployed to production.
Nuget provides automatic dependency resolution.
Services that SonarQube provides are detect bugs, security holes, and unreliable or unmaintainable code. Note: SonarQube does static analysis - it does not run the code, and the code must already compile successfully for analysis to run.
Remote-tracking branches are updated using git fetch or git pull.
By default, in a Git repository, origin refers to the remote repository that the local repository was cloned from.
Advantages of DevOps includes faster code delivery, and automated testing.
A strongly typed view in ASP.NET MVC is a view used to render a specific type of model.
The components of MVC are model, view, and controller.
MVC Lifecycle can NOT be run without Routes.
The View manages presenting information to the user.
The Model is a represention of the state of data in the program.
The Controller manages communication between the model and the view.
MVC is used to separate business code from presentation code.
It is possible to add more HTML Helper methods by using extension methods.
TempData is a dictionary object used to pass non model data between controller and view or between views but only for the current and subsequent requests only.
ViewBag is a wrapper used to access non model dynamic data properties between controller and view or between views.
ViewData is a dictionary object used to pass non model data between controller and view or between views.
System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations is the namespace that must be included to implement server side validation for models.
A Partial View can NOT have a @Layout page reference.
A Partial View can be passed data from other Views.
link, meta, title, style are tags that should go in the HEAD element.
div, header, span, strong are tags that should go within the Body element.
An HTML attribute is composed of a key-value pair as part of a tag.
<input type="text"> is the correct HTML for making a text input field.
<style> is the HTML element that allows for internal CSS to be added to the HTML page.
A child element an element directly nested inside another element.
<ol> creates a numbered list.
The <p> tag starts a paragraph.
The CSS Box Model is margin >> border >> padding >> content.
A CSS selector is a tool to target HTML elements and attributes.
Using the * operator, all siblings will be targeted.
Responsive Web Design is the ability to render your webpage at native viewport resolution.
The ID selector in CSS uses a # symbol.
Correct CSS syntax, body {color: black}.
More than one stylesheet can be used in an HTML page.