When defining a table you cannot define an aggregate value of the column.
ACID stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability.
The UNIQUE constraint requires that values must be unique in the column.
In SQL, NULL values represent the lack of a value for a column.
Referential integrity stipulates foreign keys must always reference a valid primary key.
The CHECK constraint is used to require any values placed in a column satisfy a logical expression.
The difference between WHERE and HAVING is WHERE filters data prior to aggregation, HAVING filters data after aggregation.
The ON DELETE clause is used to specify behavior to take when a referenced row is deleted.
A foreign key is a constraint which defines that a column references a primary key in another table or row.
Denormalization is the process of adding redundancy to a database.
MAX(), SUM(), and COUNT() are examples of aggregate functions. Aggregate functions work on a whole set of data to generate a value based on the whole set.
UPPER(), ABS(), CONCAT() are examples of scalar functions. Scalar functions take in some input and return a single value.
Insert is a part of the DML sublanguage. Insert is used to add data to the database or manipulate new data into the database.
A unique value and NOT NULL are required of a primary key.
LEFT JOIN will return all records from the first table despite any condition specified.
The AS keyword is used to specify an alias.
AVG() is an example of an aggregate function.
DDL statements include commands like CREATE, DROP, and ALTER.
The DROP command is used to remove a table from memory.
DML Statements include commands like INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE.
In a one-to-one relationship, you do NOT use a third table as an association or join table.
The first normalized form introduces the concept of enforcing primary keys and removing composite columns.
The third normalized form supports the mantra "describe the key, the whole key, and nothing but the key".
A foreign key does not need to point to the primary key of another table. It can actually point to the same table.
ORDER BY sorts the results of a SELECT statement in SQL.
Read Committed is the default transaction isolation level in Sql Server.
The SQL keyword, LIKE is used with wildcards.
SELECT DISTINCT is used to return only different values.
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM Persons can return the number of records in the "Persons" table.
SELECT SUM(s.rating) FROM sailors s, reserves r WHERE s.sid = r.sid AND r.bid = 103 query finds the total rating of the sailors who have reserved boat "103".
SELECT DISTINCT s.sname FROM sailors s, reserves r1, reserves r2 WHERE s.sid = r1.sid AND r1.sid = r2.sid AND r1.bid <> r2.bid query finds the name of the sailors who have reserved at least two boats.
SELECT * FROM Persons WHERE LastName BETWEEN 'Hansen' AND 'Pettersen' selects all the records from a table named "Persons" where the "LastName" is alphabetically between (and including) "Hansen" and "Pettersen".
SELECT STORE_ID, SUM(SALES_AMOUNT) FROM SALES GROUP BY STORE_ID; statement lets you find the sales amount for each store.
Insert, Update, Delete are the different events in Triggers.
2345 is the result of SELECT SUBSTR('123456789', INSTR('abcabcabc','b'), 4) FROM EMP;.
SELECT * FROM Table1 WHERE Column1 >= 10 statements has correct syntax.
You will need to call the Open() method prior to calling the ExecuteReader() method with SqlDataReader.
The ExecuteReader() method of the Command object returns a DataReader object.
ExecuteNonQuery() method can be used in order to run an insert statement using SqlCommand object.
You would store the records that are returned from the SqlDataAdapter in a DataSet.
Connection String contains the location and is used by a data source to connect to a specific database.
DBContext is used by Entity Framework to query a database.
Data Access Layer contains ADO.NET SqlDataAdapter or Entity Framework.
ORM stands for Object Relational Mapper.
You need an existing data source prior to using the Database First workflow.
You can install Entity Framework through the NuGet Package Manager.
DbContext is used in order to query from your database with LINQ.
Idisposable is the statement used to call the Dispose() method of objects that implement this interface.
ToList() is the method called in order to store data from the DbContext in memory.
EntityState.Modified is the property used if you wish to edit a record in the database.
Entity Framework is part of the ADO.NET Framework.
.SaveChanges() is the method used in order to persist changes to the database.
By default, in a Git repository, origin refers to the remote repository that the local repository was cloned from.
Sometimes Git automatically resolve merge conflicts.
Remote-tracking branches are updated using git fetch or git pull.